# EnglishLearningApp: A Very Interesting English Learning Android Application with Gamification
## Installation:
go to the link https://docs.google.com/uc?export=download&id=1LTaKA9uWH4rPOvbrvnJaSoIoIJGLY48U using your Android phone. Your phone will ask for installation. Provide your  consent to install. Then the app will be installed very simply. You have to do nothing more. 
## Description:
My  EnglishLearningApp is a gamification learning app. What is gamification? The application of typical elements of game playing (e.g. point scoring, reward etc.) to other areas of activity such as education. The main motivation of gamification is the reason that naturally human being try to win game. Therefore, if it is possible to create a gamifying mode, then human can learn better and it is discovered by many researchers. For example, you can read the research paper “Using Gamification to Enhance Second Language Learning” by George Francisco. If you know, explicitly that you have to learn something your brain feels a stress. Therefore, efficiency of learning decreases a lot. However, if it is possible to teach somebody without knowing that he is learning, it becomes very effective. Researchers tried many ways to do this. For example, singing, dancing, etc. but researchers found that most effective is gamification learning. Because the natural tendency of human being is to win a game. There are many gamification learning app available. However, most of these applications did not apply gamifications perfectly .For example you can see Clozemaker, duolingo, Mindsnacks etc. Therefore, we tried to develop a gamification learning application in Android platform applying gamification in full swing. Using our application the users will be skilled in both vocabulary and grammar of English language.
## Vocabulary Module:
When open the application you can proceed using go button. Then you will be in the home screen, where you can two options. One options for vocabulary. To go to the vocabulary option you need to press the words button. Then there you see three types of words list: Novice word list, Standard Word list and the Advanced word list.  In each word list you will find words with same difficulty. This is actually for helping to play games. For example if you do not know a word then it may be possible that you may be looser in the game. In that case, you can see the word from the lists. 
## Gamification Module:
This is our main module. Using this module you can play different games. Each of the games are designed with different goals. For example one game for learning synonym and antonym simultaneously. In the OddManOut game you will be given four words, where three words are similar and one word is different. If you can swipe out the odd i.e., the different word you will get points. Otherwise, your point will be deducted by one. If your points becomes zero, your game will be over.  Then in the RightManEnter game you can learn the sentence structure. You will be given a sentence having a blank. You have to fill the blank using appropriate word in the small circles. You just need to touch a circle. If the word contained in the circle is correct you will get congratulations otherwise it will be shown that it is wrong. Using this game you can learn sentence structure i.e., grammar and the use of words in the language in a very amazing and interesting way without any burden.  The final game is the MatchFriends game. In this game you have match the synonym by drawing lines. After completing your matching you will shown the perfect match using green line and the wrong match using red lines. And your score i.e., the number of correct match will be shown. After that you also shown the correct match one by one. You can try for another game using try another button. This is everything our interesting application. 
## Video Demo Link:
https://youtu.be/yl3-XMib7c4
